





















           SERIALIZATION AND DUPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS






































                        Table of Contents





1.0  Overview


2.0  Product Description

     2.1  Serial8 Description
     2.2  Serial16 Description


3.0  Hardware Requirements

     3.1  Serial8
     3.2  Serial16


4.0  Duplication Instructions

     4.1  Serial8 Duplication Instructions
     4.2  Serial16 Duplication Instructions


5.0  Modification Instructions

     5.1  Serial8
     5.2  Serial16
 
   












All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research






                            Section 1

                            Overview



1.0  Overview

     Both  Serial8  and  Serial16  are  Beta  Site  test  programs 
designed to duplicate and serialize Digital Research Inc. Software 
on a wide variety of microcomputers.

     The programs were designed to simplify the operator interface 
by  eliminating  the  need for several different  duplication  and 
serialization programs.   In order to reduce the possibility of an 
incorrect   source   disk  being  used   for   duplication,   both 
serialization  programs require the operator to input the  correct 
number of serial fields for each and every source diskette.




















                      











All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research



                            Section 2

                      Product Description

    
2.1 Serial8 Description

    Serial8  is a program written in assembly language to  run  on 
CP/M-80  based systems.  The progam will copy and serialize all of 
Digital  Research's Language and Graphic products.   Serialization 
is  accomplished by first scanning physical traits of  the  source 
diskette,  including bytes/track,  sector/track, sector skewing of 
the  particular computer system and the number of reserved tracks.  
Next  the diskette is scanned for blank tracks beginning with  the 
innermost  track.   Blank tracks will not be included in the  copy 
process in order to reduce copy time.   The program also  computes 
the  amount  of free memory to be used as a buffer area for  track 
data.   Because  this area will probably be too small to hold  the 
entire contents of the source diskette,  the program computes  the 
number of tracks that can be held at one time in the memory avail-
able, which is  referred to as a "page".  Pages  are read from the 
source disk and written to the destination disk one at a time until            
the entire source  diskette  has been copied.   Between the reading           
and the writing of the, data the buffer area is searched for serial         
fields; when  found  the  serial field is replaced with the current         
serial number.  A running total of the serial fields found is  kept,          
and at the end  of the copy process,  the total  is  compared  with      
the total entered by  the operator.   If the two numbers do not match,  
the serialization  process is terminated.   At  this  point, disk-    
ette verification  will  occur if  the operator has requested that 
option.  The program keeps a running total  of the diskettes prod- 
uced; when this  total  is  an exact multiple of the  verification 
frequency entered by the operator, the data  area  of  the  source  
and destination diskettes will be compared track-by-track. If this 
fails  serialization  is terminated,  otherwise  the  operator  is 
prompted  to remove the old destination diskette and insert a  new 
diskette.  



2.2 Serial16 Description

    Serial16  is  a  program written in assembly language  to  run 
under  CP/M-86  based systems,  and it runs in the same manner  as 
Serial8  ( see  Section 2.1 above ).  






All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research




                            Section 3
 
                      Hardware Requirements


3.1  Serial8

     In  order to duplicate software provided in this O.E.M.  kit,  

an eight bit microcomputer must be used.   The microcomputer  must 

meet the requirements listed below:
      
     o  Z80,  8080  or 8085 microprocessor based

     o  CP/M  2.0 or more recent operating system

     o  64k memory 
    
     o  At least two eight-inch flexible disk drives

     o  Skew for a 128 byte/sector single density diskette must be 6
     

3.2  Serial16

     In  order to duplicate software provided in this O.E.M.  kit,  

a sixteen bit microcomputer must be used.   The microcomputer must 

meet the requirements listed below:

     o  8086 or 8088 microprocessor based

     o  CP/M-86  operating system

     o  At least 128k memory

     o  At least two eight-inch flexible disk drives

     o  Skew for a 128 byte/sector single density diskette must be 6













All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research



                            Section 4

                    Duplication Instructions


4.1  Serial8 Duplication Instructions

     Operation  of the eight bit serialization program  is  simple 

and  straightforward.   A step-by-step operations guide is  listed 

below:


     o  Boot system under CP/M .

     o  Insert Serialization Diskette in any drive.

     o  Call Serial8 program by entering  <drive>:Serial8.

     o  Program banner will appear;  if this does not occur refer
        to support notes.
            
     o  The operator is prompted  for source  drive  ( drive from 
        which the master will be copied ).
 
     o  The operator replies with a letter code for  source drive  

        ( A - P ) followed by carriage return.
        
     o  The  operator  is then prompted for the destination  drive  
        ( drive to which master will be copied ).

     o  The   operator enters A-P for destination drive  required,

        followed by a carriage return.  

     o  The operator is prompted to insert source disk into select-  
        ed source drive.

     o  The  operator  inserts source ( master ) in drive selected,
        followed by a carriage return.

     o  The  source  diskette  is  registered and  the operator is         
        informed  of the  sector  skew factor.   The  operator  is         
        allowed  to change  the default  skew factor; this feature         
        has been  included  to reduce  duplication time in certain         
        cases.   Some  experimentation will be required to get the    
	correct skew factor.

     o  The  operator  answers 'Y'  or 'N' for skew factor, if 'Y' 
        the  operator  must  enter the  new  skew  factor  desired 
        followed by a carriage return.


All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research


Section 4.1 continuted

     o  After the skew factor has been assigned,  Serial8 searches 
        the  source  diskette for blank tracks.  The blank  tracks 
        will  not  be  copied in order to  speed  the  duplication 
        process.
     
     o  The operator is  prompted for the number of serial  fields 
        contained  in the source diskette - the correct number  of 
        serial fields for the source diskette(s) will be  provided 
        with each kit.  The operator enters the correct numbers of 
        serial fields followed by a carriage return.

     o  The  operator  is then  prompted for  the  starting serial
	number;  the operator  enters the correct six digit serial
	number followed by a carriage return ( serial numbers must
	be padded with zeros and right-justified ).

     o  The operator is prompted for diskette verification option.  
        The   verification   option  is  a   track-by-track   data 
        verification  process.   The operator can select  a  value 
        between   one  and  ninety-nine  to  verify   every  "xth" 
        diskettes,  if  verification is not desired  the  operator 
        enters  'N'.   All  verification  option entries  must  be 
        followed  by a carriage return. 
        
     o  The operator  is now prompted to insert the first diskette 
        in  the  destination  drive  previously   selected.    The 
        operator  inserts a new diskette in the destination  drive 
        followed by a carriage return.

     o  Track  reading and writing  messages will be displayed  on 
        the  terminal.   When duplication has been  completed, the 
        operator  will  be  prompted to remove  the  diskette  and 
        insert a new diskette.  This process will repeat until the 
        program is terminated by ^C.



4.2  Serial16 Duplication Instructions

     Operation  of the sixteen bit serialization program is simple 
and straightforward.   A step-by-step operational guide is  listed 
below:


     o  Boot system under CP/M-86 .

     o  Insert Serialization Diskette in any drive. 

     o  Call Serial16 program by entering  <drive>:Serial16.

All Information Presented Here Is Proprietary to Digital Research


Section 4.2 continued


     o  Program banner will appear;  if this does not occur refer
        to support notes.
    
     o  The  operator is  prompted for source drive ( drive  from
        which the master will be copied ).
 
     o  The  operator replies  with a letter code for source drive 
        ( A - P ) followed by carriage return.
        
     o  The  operator is then  prompted  for the destination drive 
        ( drive to  which master will be copied ).   The  operator 
        enters  A-P  for destination drive required followed by  a 
        carriage return.

     o  The operator is prompted to insert source disk in selected 
        source drive.

     o  The operator  inserts source ( master ) in  drive  selected 
        followed by a carriage return.

     o  The  source  diskette  is registered and the  operator  is 
        informed  of  the sector skew  factor.   The  operator  is 
        allowed  to change the default skew factor.   This feature     
        has been included  to reduce  duplication  time in certain          
        cases.  As  with Serial8,  some  experimentation  will  be            
        required to find the best skew factor.
 
     o  The operator answers 'Y' or 'N' for skew  factor.  If  'Y'   
        is entered, the operator must enter  the new  skew  factor          
        desired, followed by a carriage return.

     o  After the skew factor has been assigned, Serial16 searches 
        the  source diskette for blank tracks.   The blank  tracks 
        will  not  be  copied in order to  speed  the  duplication 
        process.

     o  The  operator is prompted for the number of serial  fields 
        contained  in the source diskette -- the correct number of 
        serial  fields on the source diskette(s) will be  provided 
        with each kit.  The operator enters the correct number  of 
        serial fields followed by a carriage return.

     o  The  operator is then prompted for starting serial number,
	the  operator  enters the  correct six digit serial number
	followed  by a  carriage  return  ( serial numbers must be
	padded with zeros and right justified ).



All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research


Section 4.2 continued


     o  The operator is prompted for diskette verification option.  
        The   verification   option  is  a   track-by-track   data 
        verification  process.   The operator can select  a  value 
        between   one  and  ninety-nine  to   verify  every  "xth" 
        diskette;  if  verification  is not desired  the  operator 
        enters 'N'.  All verification option entries must be 
        followed by a carriage return.	  

     o  The operator is now prompted to insert the first  diskette 
        in   the  destination  drive  previously  selected.    The 
        operator  inserts  new diskette in the  destination  drive 
        followed by a carriage return.

     o  Track  reading and writing messages will be  displayed  on 
        the  terminal.   When  duplication has been completed, the 
        operator  will  be  prompted to remove  the  diskette  and 
        insert a new diskette.  This process will repeat until the 
        program is terminated by ^C.































All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research



                            Section 5

                    Modification Instructions


5.1  Serial8 Modification Instructions

     Serial8 and Serial16 are written to serialize products which 
     contain  six-digit  serial numbers.   Some  of  the  earlier 
     products contain  five-digit serial  numbers.  These include
     CBASIC   and  CB-80 .   With a  few  minor  changes  Serial8
     and  Serial16  can  be  made to serialize products with  the
     shorter serial numbers.  In the  equate section of  Serial8,
     at  the top of the program, is a equate  named  ser$def$len.
     The  value of ser$def$len must be changed from  6 to 5.   In
     the data area at the end of the program is a variable called
     ser$def, its  value  must  be changed  from 654321 to 65432.
     This program is setup for 8" disk drives.  If  you are going
     to use  something different, the  variable "last$trk" in the
     data area of the program must be  made changed.  Use  MAC to
     assemble this new program.


5.2  Serial16 Modifications


     In  the  data area of the program is the  variable  ser_def.  
     Its value must be changed  from 654321 to 65432.  As stated
     above, if you use drives  different then 8" disk drives, the
     value of "last_trk" in the data  area must be changed.   Use
     GENMCD SERIAL16 DATA[M100] when creating the CMD file.




















All Information Presented Here is Proprietary to Digital Research



























